---
layout: post
title:  Kinetics of transformations in materials (MSAE E4202) course notes (Draft)
categories: coursework
---

## Note

The following notes are based on my coursework in Spring 2024 instructed by Prof. James Im. I am writing as I am preparing for the first midterm coming in March 20, 2024.

## Course introduction

The course focuses on conceptual understanding rather than "crunching numbers" according to the instructor. The topics here have been chosen by the instructor based on his more than a decade working with industry companies.

- [Note](#note)
- [Course introduction](#course-introduction)
- [Lecture 1. Basic thermodynamics](#lecture-1-basic-thermodynamics)
  - [First and second laws of thermodynamics](#first-and-second-laws-of-thermodynamics)
  - [Single component system](#single-component-system)
    - [Define Gibbs free energy](#define-gibbs-free-energy)
    - [Two conditions for equlibrium](#two-conditions-for-equlibrium)
    - [Competition between enthalpy and entropy with temperature](#competition-between-enthalpy-and-entropy-with-temperature)
    - [Assumption in condensed systems](#assumption-in-condensed-systems)
    - [4 types of entropies](#4-types-of-entropies)
  - [Thermodynamics of single component system](#thermodynamics-of-single-component-system)
    - [1st and 2nd derivatives of Gibbs free energy](#1st-and-2nd-derivatives-of-gibbs-free-energy)
  - [Order of phase transition](#order-of-phase-transition)
  - [Derive Gibbs from heat capacity](#derive-gibbs-from-heat-capacity)
- [Lecture 2. Thermodynamics of binary solutions](#lecture-2-thermodynamics-of-binary-solutions)
  - [Activity coefficient for regular solution model](#activity-coefficient-for-regular-solution-model)
  - [Derive partial molar Gibbs free energy](#derive-partial-molar-gibbs-free-energy)
    - [Graphically](#graphically)
    - [Mathematically](#mathematically)



## Lecture 1. Basic thermodynamics

### First and second laws of thermodynamics

Recall the first and second laws of thermodynamics:

$$
\begin{align}
dU & \equiv \delta Q + \delta W + \delta W', \\
dS & \geq \frac{\delta Q}{T}, \\
\therefore dU & = TdS - PdV,  \\
\end{align}
$$

where $\delta Q$ is the heat transferred, $\delta W$ is the mechanical work, and $\delta W'$ includes chemical, magnetic, and electrical work.

### Single component system


#### Define Gibbs free energy

Gibbs free energy for a single component system is defined by

$$
\begin{align}
G &\equiv U + PV - TS, \\
dG &= dU + PdV + VdP - TdS - SdT, \\
\therefore dG & = -SdT + VdP.
\end{align}
$$

#### Two conditions for equlibrium

The two Conditions for equlibrium $ dG=0 $ and $ d^2G > 0 $. The curvature must be concave up to ensure the global or local minimum.


#### Competition between enthalpy and entropy with temperature

Recall the definition of Gibbs free energy:

$$
\begin{align}
G &= U + PV - TS, \\
H &\equiv U + PV, \\
\therefore G &= H - TS.
\end{align}
$$

Gibbs free energy is a function of $H$ and $TS$. As low temperature, $H$ dominates. At high temperature, $TS$ dominates.

#### Assumption in condensed systems

The internal energy of condensed systems such as liquids and solids is primarily determined by enthalpy, allowing us to approximate as $U \approx H$. Enthalpy indicates energy associated with bonding. Entropy measures the degree of randomless in a system.

#### 4 types of entropies

1. Configurational entropy $S_c$ is defined by the number of distinguishable arrangements of atoms within a system.
2. Thermal entropy $S_T$ quantifies the uncertainty in atomic positions. Systems with weaker atomic bonds and heavier atoms exhibit higher levels of thermal entropy.
3. Electornic entropy $S_E$ quantifies energy distribution among electrons.
4. Magnetic entropy $S_M$ measures ways of arranging net magnetic moments.

### Thermodynamics of single component system

#### 1st and 2nd derivatives of Gibbs free energy

Gibbs free energy is a function of temperature and pressure. We may measure them.

$$
\begin{align}
dG &= \left(\frac{\partial G}{\partial T}\right)_P dT + \left(\frac{\partial G}{\partial P}\right)_T dP, \\
dG &= - SdT + VdP.
\end{align}
$$

First derivatives:

$$
\begin{align}
\left(\frac{\partial G}{\partial T}\right)_p &= -S, \\
\left(\frac{\partial G}{\partial P}\right)_T &= V.
\end{align}
$$


$$

$$

Second derivatives:

$$
\begin{align}
\left(\frac{\partial^2 G}{\partial T^2}\right)_P &= - \left(\frac{\partial S}{\partial T}\right)_P, \\
\left(\frac{\partial^2 G}{\partial T^2}\right)_P &= - \left(\frac{C_p}{T}\right)_P.
\end{align}
$$

As entropy and heat capacity must be greater than or equal to zero, the first and the second derivatives of $G$ with respect to $T$ must be zero or negative.

### Order of phase transition

A first-order transition occurs in a system where the first derivative of Gibbs free energy with respect to state variables such as temperature and pressure is discontinuous.

A second-order transition occurs in a system where the first and third derivatives are continuous, but the second derivative is not continuous.

### Derive Gibbs from heat capacity

Recall the definition of heat capacity $C_P$:

$$
C_P \equiv \left(\frac{\delta Q}{dT}\right)_P = T\left(\frac{dS}{dT}\right)_P. 
$$

At constant pressure, the relationship between heat capacity and enthalpy can be expressed, leading to:

$$
H = TdS,
$$

and 

$$
C_P = \left(\frac{dH}{dT}\right).
$$

To derive the full expression of enthalpy as a function of temperature, and subsequently Gibbs free energy, we integrate over temperature:

$$
H(T) = H_0(T_0)  + \int_{T_0}^{T} C_P dT
$$

$$ 
S(T) = S_0(T_0) + \int_{T_0}^{T} \frac{C_P}{T} dT
$$

Gibbs free energy then can be computed by combinting entropy and enthalpy:

$$
\begin{align}
G(T) &= H(T) - T S(T), \\
G(T) &=  H_0 - T S_0 + \int_{T_0}^{T} \frac{C_P}{T} dT - T \int_{T_0}^{T} \frac{C_P}{T} dT.
\end{align}
$$

## Lecture 2. Thermodynamics of binary solutions

We are interested in mixing two pure components and determine the change in the overall Gibbs free energy.

$$
\begin{align}
G_{sol} &= G_{sep} + G_{mix} \\
G_{sol} &= X_AG_A^o + X_B G_A^o + ∆G_{mix} \\
G_{sol} &= X_A \overline{G}_A + X_B \overline{G}_B \\
\therefore ∆G_{mix} &= X_A \overline{G}_A + X_B \overline{G}_B - X_A G_A^o - X_B G_A^o \\
∆G_{mix} &= X_A(\overline{G}_A - G_A^o) + X_B(\overline{G}_B - G_B^o)
\end{align}
$$

$$
\begin{align}
∆\overline{G}_A &\equiv (\overline{G}_A - G_A^o) \equiv RT \ln a_A = RT \ln \gamma_A X_A = RT \ln \gamma_A + RT \ln X_A \\
∆\overline{G}_B &\equiv (\overline{G}_B - G_B^o) \equiv RT \ln a_B = RT \ln \gamma_B X_B = RT \ln \gamma_B + RT \ln X_B \\
\therefore ∆G_{mix} &= X_A ∆\overline{G}_A + X_B ∆\overline{G}_B \\ 
∆G_{mix} &= X_A(RT \ln \gamma_A + RT \ln X_A) + X_B(RT \ln \gamma_B + RT \ln X_B) \\
\end{align}
$$

Define the following:

$$
\begin{align}
∆\overline{G}_K^{xs} &\equiv  RT \ln \gamma_K  \\
∆\overline{G}_K^{id} &\equiv RT \ln X_K   \\
\end{align}
$$

$$
\begin{align}
\therefore ∆G_{mix} &= X_A(∆\overline{G}_A^{xs} + ∆\overline{G}_A^{id}) + X_B(∆\overline{G}_B^{xs} + ∆\overline{G}_B^{id})
\end{align}
$$

For the ideal solution model $∆\overline{G}_{K}^{xs} = 0$.

For the regular solution model $∆\overline{G}_{K}^{xs} \not ={0}$.

Recall the following equation: 

$$
∆G_{mix} = X_A RT \ln\gamma_A + X_A RT \ln X_A + X_B RT \ln\gamma_B + X_B RT \ln X_B
$$


$$
\Omega X_A X_B \equiv X_A RT \ln\gamma_A + X_B RT \ln\gamma_B
$$

Therefore, the Gibbs free energy of mixing for a regular solution ($∆G_{mix}^{reg}$) can be expressed as:

$$
∆G_{mix}^{reg} = RT(X_A \ln X_A + X_B \ln X_B) + \Omega X_A X_B
$$


Recalling the fundamental relationship $G = H - TS$,  we can derive expressions for the entropy of mixing ($∆S_{mix}^{reg}$) and and the enthalpy of mixing ($∆H_{mix}^{reg}$) in a regular solution:

$$
\begin{align}
S_{mix}^{reg} &= -R(X_A \ln X_A + X_B \ln X_B) \\
H_{mix}^{reg} &= \Omega X_A X_B
\end{align}
$$

### Activity coefficient for regular solution model

$$
\begin{align}
\Delta G_{mix}^{reg} &= \Omega(1 - X_A)^2 X_A + \Omega(1 - X_B)^2 X_B + X_A  RT \ln X_A  + X_B RT \ln X_B \\
\Delta G_{mix}^{reg} &=  X_A RT \ln\gamma_A + X_B RT \ln\gamma_B + X_A RT \ln X_A + X_B RT  \ln X_B \\
\end{align}
$$

$$
\begin{align}
\therefore \Omega(1 - X_A)^2 X_A &= X_A RT \ln\gamma_A \\
\therefore \Omega(1 - X_B)^2 X_B &= X_B RT \ln\gamma_B \\
\end{align}
$$

Rearrange

$$
\begin{align}
\gamma_A^{reg} &= \left(\frac{\Omega(1 - X_A)^2}{RT}\right) \\
\gamma_B^{reg} &= \left(\frac{\Omega(1 - X_B)^2}{RT}\right) \\
a_A^{reg} &= X_A \gamma_A^{reg} \\ 
a_B^{reg} &= X_B \gamma_B^{reg} 
\end{align}
$$

### Derive partial molar Gibbs free energy

#### Graphically


#### Mathematically

$$
dG_{sol} = \overline{G}_A dX_A +  \overline{G}_A dX_A + 
$$