---
layout: post
title: Personal essays and philosophy
categories: personal
---


### Embrace duality for excellence

An electron can be modeled with states such as "spin up" and "spin down," among others described by quantum numbers. These varying states coexist in superposition until one of the states is observed with a certain probability. 

Similarly, multiple states of emotions and thoughts may coexist. Our mental state is not binary. We may express a specific mental state—either happy or sad—only when we state it, similar to how an electron manifests a single energetic state when measured. The written or verbal mental statement may not depict the superposed states. The expressed state merely has a higher probability than other states, similar to the probable observation of the lowest energy state at room temperature in electrons.

Elite athletes, such as Michael Jordan (MJ), exemplify both confidence and humility. MJ scored game-winning points in NBA and NCAA championship games. Yet, he also displayed humility by working to improve his three-point shooting percentage and transform into a mid-range shooter with his trainer, Tim Grover, for nearly two decades. MJ showed a willingness to listen and adhere to practice and diet routines. In practice, he was ruthless, yet he could not hold back his tears after winning his sixth championship, cradling the trophy in his arms. Duality and plurality of emotions may coexist. The probability of each emotional state is merely altered by circumstances, similar to how temperature influences the distribution of electronic states.

I build open-source programs that help experimentalists analyze synthesized crystal data. I design data structures for crystal geometries, develop command-line user interfaces, and generate publication-quality figures. I am proud and confident in my ability to deliver results. Nonetheless, I recognize that my craftsmanship can still be elevated compared to other open-source projects. Kobe Bryant said, "Once you know what it is in life that you want to do, then the world basically becomes your library. Everything you view, you can view from that perspective, which makes everything a learning asset for you."

I could enhance my code by using matrices to compute atomic distances instead of relying on for-loops. I could improve the flow of the command-line interface by seeking feedback from users without programming expertise. My goal is not just to create good programs that merely work. I aim to craft phenomenal inventions that are loved by my users. I invest my time—a part of my life—in learning and applying unit testing, static type checking, continuous integration, and any other practices that elevate my craft. No audience watches elite athletes' individual practices in the morning, but that is where their legacy begins.

June 2, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York


### Writing principles

Words in a sentence are ordered based on purpose. While the following sentence, "The role of titanium is discussed in the first section," is clear in meaning, the first 4 words do not address the purpose of informing the structure of the paper. I instead write, "First, we discuss the role of titanium."

A sentence requires precise words to avoid miscommunication. In fields such as the military and medicine, professionals avoid colloquial words. Surgeons use the term "correct" instead of "right" during procedures. I recently rewrote "Find the number of atoms in a formula" to "Count the unique elements in a chemical formula." In this context, "formula" could refer to a mathematical formula, and "Find the number" is replaced with "count." "Elements" refers to unique atom types.

A sentence is abridged with the correct noun-verb pair. Adjectives describe nouns. Adverbs describe verbs. Adjectives and adverbs may not be necessary when the noun-verb pair adequately conveys the meaning.

A sentence should not start with symbols. If an acronym is unfamiliar to the audience, the full name should be used multiple times.

A sentence must be clear, descriptive, and concise in that order. 

I avoid connecting two or more full sentences with conjunctions as a single sentence is easier to read. A conjunction should be used sparingly; as Steve Jobs said, "Less is more."

In programming, we refactor comments, names, and structures after the function is implemented. In writing, words, sentences, paragraphs, and outlines are refactored after the meaning is conveyed.

Repetition is not harmful if it enhances clarity.

June 1, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### Purpose of research

In crystallography and solid-state science, in particular, research serves to (1) discover new substances with potential utility, (2) propose methods, and (3) characterize the underlying structure and phenomena with a category such as space group.

Here, the unifying theme is to produce new knowledge. The main difference between humans and others is our ability to store and retrieve generational knowledge across time and space. Hence, the production and propagation of knowledge is a human-like endeavor. This activity equips us with the materials and methods to become the apex predators in the animal kingdom.

In contrast, this very knowledge also equips us with the capacity to destroy ourselves. Laws, regulations, and orders impose boundaries on individuals, organizations, and nations. The boundaries prevent the misuse of power derived from this knowledge. This is evident in recent history, particularly from the 1940s onwards. Hence, research is a sacred activity; it is a human activity, aimed at advancing our civilization by producing new knowledge.

June 1, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### "Good luck!" 

I favor the word "serendipity" over "luck." Both words represent an unexpected beneficial outcome. They differ in terms of self-direction and initiation. The well-known explorer isn't merely lucky to discover new lands. I am not merely lucky to have crossed the Pacific Ocean to be in one of the lands. I decided to be here. Yes, I do not neglect what I was provided with. Nonetheless, serendipity implies a degree of will.

As a student, serendipity is the occurrence of exam problems I've solved several times before. As a researcher, it's the moment I figure out how to optimize data structures and create incredible figures with Matplotlib, or when I discover open-source code that helps me learn computing with matrices. As a writer, it's the moment when just a pair of a noun and a verb forms a better sentence. The term "serendipity" encapsulates this sense of self-initiative and direction towards solving a problem. So, when I say "Good luck," it has a meaningful context too.

June 1, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York


### The Structure of Scientific Revolutions - Thomas S. Kuhn

It is widely accepted that science evolves linearly based on the body of knowledge curated by predecessors. The phrase "...standing on the shoulders of giants" by Issac Newton embodies the notion that scientific advancements are built atop existing theories and concepts. However, *The Structure of Scientific Revolutions* by Thomas S. Kuhn claims scientific revolutions are neither linear nor cumulative.

According to Kuhn, not all theories and concepts are defined as "revolutions." Kuhn indicates that scientific revolutions only occur when there is a shift in the existing paradigm to a new paradigm within a scientific community. A paradigm is described as a standard of equations, techniques, apparatuses, and educational systems that a scientific community has embraced and practiced. A paradigm provides the common technical vocabulary that allows scientists in the community to articulate concepts and collectively conduct experiments. In the early seventeenth century, Newton's *Principia Mathematica* provided a set of equations and techniques that gave rise to the doctrine of classical physics, also referred to as Newtonian physics. Newtonian physics has become the standard paradigm that models the motion of particles and gravity. However, Kuhn argues that long-standing paradigms often fail to explain the anomalies observed in nature, which causes community members to lose trust in the existing paradigm. Scientists, often young and new to the field, seek a new set of equations radically distinct from the existing paradigm. Eventually, one dominant theory emerges and displaces the old paradigm, as in Einstein's general theory of relativity, which accounted for the anomaly found in the orbit of Mercury that Newtonian physics failed to explain. Kuhn outlines the process of scientific revolutions with a framework consisting of 4 phases, pre-science, normal science, crisis, and revolution, whose last phase is resolved by a paradigm shift.

The first phase within Kuhn's framework of scientific revolution is defined as *pre-science*. While individual scientists attempt to discover new theories during pre-science, there is no dominant set of equations, techniques, and concepts referred to as a paradigm. During the pre-paradigmatic period, scientists observe and collect facts. Due to the lack of a common paradigm, scientists within each pre-paradigmatic school confront one another and interpret these facts in different ways. Pre-science is further characterized by a lack of common scientific vocabulary. The lack of common language hinders collaboration amongst scientists and schools. Thus, Kuhn describes pre-science as the least productive phase in the framework.

The transition from pre-science to normal science occurs as one set of theories and concepts becomes dominant within the scientific community. The distinction between pre-science and normal science is the existence of a paradigm. Kuhn explains that normal science "is predicated on the assumption that the scientific community knows what the world is like," comparing a paradigm to a "map" that guides scientists towards modeling nature. Kuhn illustrates that research within the paradigm of normal science is also analogous to "puzzle-solving," where the problems and questions within the paradigm are scattered pieces of solvable puzzles. The puzzle pieces are fit together in a complete shape through refinement and precision. The comparison of a paradigm to a map and puzzle-solving assumes that the scientific community is capable of knowing nature guided by the paradigm. The period of normal science is marked by cumulative and linear developments facilitated by advancements in measuring devices and techniques. Newton's universal law of gravitation in Principia Mathematica published in 1687 approximated the Moon's orbital period based upon the principle that attractive gravitational force exists between two objects. Furthermore, using the same principle, Newton predicted the motion of other planets in the Solar system. Within the paradigm of normal science, research questions and facts collected serve to support the existing paradigm. Normal science is not focused on novelty but rather precision and confirmation.

The transition from normal science to crisis takes place when new inexplicable findings referred to as anomalies threaten the foundation of the existing paradigm and cast widespread doubt within the scientific community. As measuring techniques and devices improve, anomalies become easier to detect and harder to be avoided within the scientific community. The anomaly in Newtonian physics was first observed by Le Verrier, a French astronomer, in 1859. Through Le Verrier's improved mathematical technique of predicting the motion of Mercury, he discovered that there was a 43 arcsecond per century discrepancy between the theoretical value of Newtonian physics and the observed precession of the perihelion of Mercury. Perihelion is the point in the orbit of a planet nearest to the Sun. One of the ways scientists respond to an anomaly is by devising ad hoc modifications of their theory in order to eliminate any apparent conflict within the paradigm. In response to the discrepancy in Mercury's precession, some scientists that defended Newton's paradigm assumed that there was an invisible dusk between the Sun and Mercury that affected the precession. Others proposed a new planet, Vulcan, orbited close to the Sun and was responsible for the discrepancy. As the anomaly remains inexplicable within the existing paradigm, scientists in the community become more critical of the paradigm and begin to question its underlying foundations. The widespread acknowledgment of these inconsistencies within the existing paradigm and the introduction of new theories illustrate the defining characteristics of crisis. During a crisis, scientists, often young and less invested in the existing paradigm, seek theories outside the boundary of the paradigm in order to explain the anomaly.

An alternative paradigm is established when a new set of theories and concepts that explains the anomaly becomes widely accepted by the scientific community. In the case of the 43 arcseconds per century anomaly found in the precession of Mercury, it was Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity published in 1915 that precisely modeled Mercury's orbit without discrepancy. Einstein's new theory superseded Newton's universal law of gravitation and became the standard for predicting a planet's orbit. The displacement of the old paradigm by a new paradigm marks the defining characteristic of Kuhn's fourth phase of revolution, in which the newly constituted dominant paradigm entirely reconstructs the fundamental methods, generalizations, and rules of the old paradigm. The shift to Einstein's theory of relativity in which time and space are not fixed demonstrates that the foundations behind a new paradigm are not cumulative but rather radical. However, Kuhn notes the cyclical and periodic nature of these paradigm shifts or transformations, in which scientific revolution circles back to the period of normal science. After a new paradigm is introduced, the community enters the phase of normal science with scientists of the new order aiming to improve the precision of the paradigm. In the case of Einsteinian physics, the theory of general relativity was further used to predict the movement of the precession of perihelion in other planets. Just as in the shift from Newtonian to Einsteinian physics, according to Kuhn's framework of scientific revolution, scientists of Einsteinian physics will discover anomalies that lead to new crises, and the established paradigm will again be transformed.

While scientific revolutions accomplished by paradigm shifts within a scientific community seem to advance the knowledge of science towards truth, Kuhn maintains that the role of scientific revolution lies in providing a new "map" that serves to temporarily guide scientists until anomalies are observed. Furthermore, there is no linear progression towards truth but only periodic rise and fall of paradigms. As Kuhn describes, "Einstein's general theory of relativity is closer to Aristotle's than... to Newton's." Based on Kuhn's analysis, Newton's phrase "...standing on the shoulders of giants" is partially accurate during the period of normal science. However, the structure of scientific revolutions as a whole is neither cumulative nor linear but rather a cycle of paradigmatic transformation.

Fall 2021, EID 367, The Cooper Union


### The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail - Clayton M. Christensen

Despite seemingly sound managerial practices, such as listening to existing customers and continued investment in technology, great companies are often displaced as market leaders. According to Clayton M. Christensen, in The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail, it is precisely due to these widely accepted practices of good management that leading firms are confronted with great profit loss and eventual bankruptcy. The fall of these incumbents begs the question, “Why do great companies fail?” In his book, Christensen highlights the failure of incumbent firms to recognize and respond to new technological developments as the source of their decline.

Christensen coined the phrase the failure framework which illustrates the process of how certain types of new technologies cause established companies, also referred to as incumbent companies, to fail. Christensen defines technology as either sustaining or disruptive. Sustaining technology iteratively and incrementally improves upon an existing performance measure, a requirement or a specification demanded by customers. In the hard disk drive industry in the 1980s, mainframe manufacturers such as IBM demanded large storage capacity requirements of 300 to 400 MB from the 14-inch hard drive. Disruptive technology, often developed by entrant companies, in contrast, initially underperforms in comparison to the performance measure of sustaining technology but introduces a new performance measure. In the same hard disk drive case study, Christensen cites the architectural innovations of the 8-inch hard disk drive as disruptive technology, which introduced a new performance measure of small size demanded by desktop and mini-computer manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard. Disruptive technology initially fails to meet the performance requirement of the incumbent companies’ customers and must find a new or niche market that values the newly introduced performance measure for survival. The 8-inch drive with the storage capacity of 40 MB initially failed to meet the storage capacity demand of the mainframe manufacturers. Christensen's failure framework describes how, despite this initial underperformance, disruptive technology eventually causes the failure of established companies. The failure framework consists of three principle components, technology maturation, performance oversupply, and resource dependence.

Technology maturation, the first component in Christensen’s failure framework, introduces a challenge for sustaining technology to maintain the rate of improvement in performance. Technology maturation occurs at the end of the Technology S-Curve. The Technology S-Curve is a graphical representation which demonstrates the rate of performance improvement with performance on the vertical axis and engineering effort or time on the horizontal axis. As the curve progresses towards the mid-section in the horizontal axis, the slope of the curve increases as technology becomes more understood and more resources are allocated. Technology maturation occurs when performance on the vertical axis asymptotically approaches a natural or physical limit as engineering effort or time further progresses. Returning to the disk drive case study, while the 14-inch drives approached the asymptote of technology maturation with annual performance improvement limited to 22 percent, the 8-inch drives, designed to optimize storage, benefited from the advances in storage capacity with annual storage capacity improvements of 40 percent. The reduced rate of performance improvement due to technology maturation of the 14-inch drives led existing customers of the sustaining technology to pay a premium for the same incremental performance improvement. Customers of the 14-inch drives paid \$1.65 per megabyte improvement, 13 percent higher than \$1.42 of the 8-inch hard drive.

The second component of the failure framework, performance oversupply, occurs as the rate of performance improvement exceeds the performance requirement. In continuing the disk drive case study, Christensen presents the storage capacity of 5.25-inch drives, which exceeded 300 percent of the desktop manufacturers’ performance demand. Meanwhile, the 3.5-inch drives, which initially underperformed, ultimately satisfied the storage demand of the desktop manufacturers by maintaining the rate of storage improvement. Consequently, by 1988, the 5.25- and 3.5-inch drives both met the performance demand of the desktop manufacturers. At this point, as desktop manufacturers no longer required a drive with higher storage capacity, customers began seeking other features such as functionality, reliability, convenience, and price. As demonstrated in the desktop computer market, during this period of performance oversupply, existing customers of sustaining technology migrate to disruptive technology. In 1985, only 1 percent of the desktop manufacturers migrated from 5- to 3.5-inch drives. Within 4 years, however, the 3.5-inch drives accounted for 60 percent of total drive sales. The period of performance oversupply and the continued rate of performance improvement of disruptive technology shifted the basis of competition from storage capacity to other features such as portability and price.

The third component of the failure framework, resource dependence, describes the tendency of a company to allocate resources towards serving the existing customers. As the company depends on satisfying existing customers and in return generating profit to maintain the operational expenses of the company, incumbent companies seek more definitive ways to maintain or increase profitability. As a result, incumbent companies aggressively invest in sustaining technology and attempt to lead existing customers to higher-end products with higher gross margins. Incumbents choose not to allocate resources in disruptive technology where gross margins are lower and the market is unpredictable and smaller. In the case of the hard disk drive industry, Seagate, the incumbents of the 5-inch hard drive market for desktop manufacturers, initially canceled the 3.5-inch drive program and continued innovating the 5-inch model where customers paid higher prices for incremental megabytes of capacity. In 1987, despite the emergence of customer migration from 5-inch to 3.5-inch hard drives, Seagate executives initially disregarded the 3.5-inch market due to the smaller market size of \$50 million and lower gross margins of 22 percent compared to the current 5-inch market with \$300 million and 25 percent. By 1991, the 3.5-inch market grew to \$700 million as new customers such as portable laptops manufacturers emerged, and simultaneously desktop manufacturers further migrated to the 3.5-inch disk drive during performance oversupply of the 5-inch drive. While Seagate eventually attempted to allocate resources for the 3.5-inch drive in 1988, Christensen cites that by 1991 none of Seagate’s 3.5-inch products had been sold to portable/laptop/notebook computers. In 1997, Seagate reported a \$550 million net loss in sales.

Why do great companies fail? Christensen’s failure framework illustrates the process of how disruptive technology drives sustaining technology developed by incumbent firms in the mainstream market to fail. Sustaining technology incrementally improves upon the performance measure demanded by the existing customers. In contrast, disruptive technology, while initially underperforming in the performance measure of sustaining technology, introduces a new performance measure. As the performance demand of existing customers is met by both sustaining and disruptive technology, customers seek other features such as portability, functionality, and price which are offered by disruptive technology. At this point, customers of incumbent companies migrate to disruptive technology. As the process of migration continues, incumbent companies are displaced by these entrant firms and disruptive technology prevails.

Fall 2021, EID 367, The Cooper Union


### The Discoverers: A History of Man’s Search to Know His World and Himself by Daniel J. Boorstin

Although it is often believed that the widespread of technological innovation is created through individual genius, the acceptance and rejection of a technology are affected by elements in which the creator has no control over. These elements are referred to as human dimensions. The historical accounts presented in *The Discoverers: A History of Man’s Search to Know His World and Himself *by Daniel J. Boorstin indicates that human dimensions such as political, religious, and social factors influence the acceptance and rejection of a technology.

In early fifteenth century Portugal, innovation in shipbuilding was stimulated by the political influence of Prince Henry, also known as Henry the Navigator. With political and economic interests in seafaring across the west coast of Africa, Prince Henry utilized national resources to create an infrastructure for shipbuilding both in his court, referred to as the “Research and Development Laboratory” by Boorstin, and in Sagres, a coastal city of south Portugal. Under the leadership of Prince Henry, caravels were optimized for seafaring. The new lateen-rigged caravel design allowed the mariners to travel 55 degrees into the wind compared to the 67 degrees of the previous square lateen-rigged caravel, reducing time at sea by approximately one-third. Furthermore, the introduction of a shallow deck allowed the mariners to explore inshore waters and to beach the ship for carpentering and repairing. The political leadership of Prince Henry ultimately fostered an innovative hub for shipbuilding as Boorstin describes, “under Prince Henry's stimulus, Lagos, a few miles along the coast of Sagres, became a center of caravel-building,” and attracted talents such as “...the shipbuilders and carpenters, and other craftsmen.” Despite the death of Prince Henry in 1460, Sagres continued to remain the center of shipbuilding innovation. Prince Henry’s maritime agendas for innovation exemplify the influence of politics in fostering an environment for advancement and acceptance of a technology.

In contrast to the political influence that incubated Sagres as a region of maritime development in Portugal, during the same period, anti-maritime policies induced the rejection of shipbuilding technology in China. During the early fifteenth century, the Chinese navy led by Cheng Ho possessed remarkable shipbuilding technology. The Chinese navy had the capacity of deploying up to 317 ships. The largest ships were up to 444 feet in length and 180 feet in beam compared to Prince Henry’s caravel that had 70 feet in length and 25 feet in beam. The Chinese navy also invented watertight bulkheads which partitioned the ship and prevented the spread of fire and water. However, after the death of Cheng Ho’s patron, Emperor Yung Lo in 1424, the next emperor enacted anti-maritime laws and introduced capital punishment for unapproved travels abroad. In contrast to the political support of shipbuilding by Prince Henry in Portugal, the Chinese prohibited shipbuilding which led to “shipyards disintegrated, sailors deserted, and shipwrights fearing to become accomplices in the crime of seafaring.” Consequently by 1474, the fleet of 400 warships diminished to 140, and by 1525, “Chinese officials were ordered to destroy all such ships... perfecting laws and organizing officials to suppress all seafaring.” The juxtaposition of the acceptance and rejection of the shipbuilding technology led by the political authority of these two states demonstrates the significant role of the political dimension in technology adoption and innovation.

The Roman Catholic Church’s early support of Gutenberg’s Bible, which utilized the movable type, is an example of religion's role in fostering technological innovation. Johannes Gutenberg, a publisher and goldsmith born in the German Roman Empire, invented the first movable-type printing press in 1454. The movable type press initially cost more to build, requiring“early investment as the preparation of a wood block or copper plate was costly.” The Roman Catholic Church, with interest in the mass production of the Bible, provided economic support to Gutenberg. Consequently, with the support of the Church, the printing press industry grew exponentially. In Europe, towns that had printing presses increased from 11 to 238 between the period of 1480 and 1500. The movable type press further propagated beyond the printing of the Bible to the printing of ancient classics such as Aristotle, Caesar, and Ptolemy’s Geography. The religious influence of the Church not only contributed to the development of technology through capital support but sparked a transition from handwritten manuscripts to printed books, which greatly enhanced the scalability of knowledge dissemination in fifteenth century Europe.

While Christian influence spurred the widespread adoption of the movable type across Europe, in contrast, this same religious influence also suppressed map-making technology. In 100 BC, Ptolemy’s astronomical and observation-based cartography and standards were carefully designed and adopted by the Roman Empire. Ptolemy invented the grid system of dividing the earth’s sphere into latitudes and longitudes for eight thousand areas. However, after the Roman Empire was conquered by Christianity, orthodox Christian geographers discarded Ptolemy’s accumulated body of knowledge in cartography. Boorstin accounts, “Christian faith and dogma suppressed the useful image of the world that had been so slowly, so painfully, and so scrupulously drawn by ancient geographers.” Instead, orthodox Christian geographers used literal interpretations from Christian dogma and biblical scripture to formulate their own map. The Christian maps, regardless of their accuracy, became the “guides to the Articles of Faith.” Boorstin describes the period as the “Great Interruption,” in which cartographic innovations were halted and technology retreated. The contrast between the adoption of the movable type and suppression of Ptolemy’s cartography under the influence of Christianity demonstrates the influence of religion on technology acceptance and rejection.

Lastly, the social component within the human dimensions may induce acceptance and rejection of technology. In the city of Lyons, France in 1481, prior to the adoption of the clock, public bells served not only as the broadcasting medium between the people and town councils and churches, but also provided a source of identity and communion for the town’s people and institutions. Boorstin states, “Churches, monasteries, and whole towns were judged by the reach and resonance of the peals from their tower.” Upon the advent of public clocks, the citizens of Lyons themselves demanded installment of a public clock and petitioned their town council stating, “if such a clock were to be made, more merchants would come to the fairs, the citizens would be very consoled and cheerful...” Boorstin indicates that the prior technical knowledge and experience of bell-casting not only encouraged wide adoption but also “advanced the art of the clockmaker and encouraged the elaboration of clocks.” The societal demand for a public clock by the citizens of Lyons demonstrates that the acceptance of technology is influenced by prior exposure to similar technology and social values.

While the acceptance of the public clock was made possible by direct social demands from the citizens of Lyons in 1481, the same clockmaking technology was decisively suppressed with the rise of another social group known as the French guilds in Paris in 1544. As clockmaking technology “enticed men across boundaries of religions, language, and politics” throughout Europe, in Paris, the French guilds only supported an organized association of clockmakers and merchants who enforced the guild’s monopoly against foreigners. The French guilds not only imposed heavy duties on their members, but also inhibited the growth of an ecosystem crucial for innovation such as “restricting numbers of apprentices and of workshops.” While the French government “imported” Henry Sully, the famous clockmaker, and 60 other craftsmen from England to invigorate the clockmaking industry in France, the attempt failed as the French guilds suppressed Sully’s workshops. The juxtaposition between the acceptance of clockmaking technology led by the citizens of Lyons and the suppression by the guilds indicates that the interest of social groups affects the outcome of technological innovation, often more powerfully than the influence of politics.

The rise and fall of innovative spirits in shipbuilding, cartography, printing, and clockmaking were identified in the historical case studies across Portugal, China, and France. The juxtaposition of the acceptance and rejection of these technological innovations due to the various influences of political, religious, and social factors corroborates the thesis that technology acceptance and rejection are a function of both human dimensions and the utility of the product. Prior to building commercial technologies and mastering engineering knowledge, innovators must also consider the various political, religious, and social contexts in which these technologies exist within.

Fall 2021, EID 367, The Cooper Union

### The Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution - C. P. Snow

Steve Jobs, co-founder of Apple Inc., stated, “It's in Apple's DNA that technology alone is not enough — it's technology married with liberal arts, married with the humanities, that yields us the results that make our heart sing.” By recognizing the power of this union between the humanities and the sciences, Steve Jobs created numerous tools that improved the accessibility and user experience of personal computing devices, catapulting Apple Inc. into one of the most innovative companies in the world.

In his lecture at Cambridge University in 1957, later titled *The Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution*, C. P. Snow, a British physicist and novelist, warned the British parliament of the widening separation between the two disciplinaries, the humanities and the sciences. Snow asserted that "the intellectual life of the whole of Western society is increasingly being split into two polar groups.” Political leaders who predominantly studied the humanities within the traditional British educational system were ill-equipped to lead the nation in the age of the scientific revolution. Snow argued that the elites often rejected the innovation of scientists, stating that while scientists had the “future in their bones,” the “traditional culture” or the elites responded “by wishing the future did not exist.” Having recognized the threat of this divide to national competition a decade after World War II, Snow demanded for a unification of the two disciplinaries with the final remark, “closing the gap between our cultures is a necessity in the most abstract intellectual sense, as well as in the most practical.”

Steve Jobs’ success in applying his knowledge of calligraphy from the humanities to the development of personal computing devices illustrates the intrinsic role of interdisciplinary diversity in innovation. When the first Macintosh computer was released in 1984, for the first time in the history of machinery, Jobs provided users with a wide assortment of digital fonts and typeface designs such as Helvetica and Times New Roman. The ability to customize the font along with a human-centric user-interface improved the accessibility of personal computing devices. During Job’s commencement speech at Stanford University in 2015, he recalled his calligraphy experience at Reed College in the 1970’s as “...beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science cannot capture.” He further stated that, had he not studied calligraphy in his 20’s, “personal computers might not have the wonderful typography they do today.” His collective insight into the humanities and software technology changed how humans interacted with machines and demonstrated the significance of interdisciplinary diversity in technological innovation.

Steve Jobs, one of the most innovative entrepreneurs of the 21st century, by combining the knowledge of the humanities and the sciences, improved the accessibility of personal computing devices for users. Conversely, this innovation by Steve Jobs also precipitated the bankruptcies of numerous companies that failed to recognize the threat of interdisciplinary divide as previously warned by C.P. Snow. Therefore, technological leaders and entrepreneurs of today must recognize and embrace interdisciplinarity as an indispensable element of innovation.

Fall 2021, EID 367, The Cooper Union