---
layout: post
title: Personal essays and philosophy
categories: personal
---

- [Thoughts on rejection](#thoughts-on-rejection)
- [Failure framework: experimental, expensive, pivotal, and avoidable](#failure-framework-experimental-expensive-pivotal-and-avoidable)
- [Two types of innovation and evaluation](#two-types-of-innovation-and-evaluation)
- [Goal](#goal)
- [Embrace duality for excellence](#embrace-duality-for-excellence)
- [Writing principles](#writing-principles)
- [Purpose of research](#purpose-of-research)
- ["Good luck!"](#good-luck)
- [The Structure of Scientific Revolutions - Thomas S. Kuhn](#the-structure-of-scientific-revolutions---thomas-s-kuhn)
- [The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail - Clayton M. Christensen](#the-innovators-dilemma-when-new-technologies-cause-great-firms-to-fail---clayton-m-christensen)
- [The Discoverers: A History of Man’s Search to Know His World and Himself - Daniel J. Boorstin](#the-discoverers-a-history-of-mans-search-to-know-his-world-and-himself---daniel-j-boorstin)
- [The Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution - C. P. Snow](#the-two-cultures-and-the-scientific-revolution---c-p-snow)

### Thoughts on rejection

Rejection is a form of failure. Failure is the inability to meet expectations.
Here, I present two types of rejections and how I navigate my life.

As of this writing, I encounter rejections every one or two months. My recent
paper was rejected by a journal, and my request for collaboration was declined.
As I further advance my career in academia, I expect these intervals to
decrease.

I do not use the phrase "don’t take it personally." There is nothing more
personal than spending one's invaluable and finite resource called time.

Nonetheless, rejection is inevitable. We compete for finite resources provided
at each level of our career.

We are on a ship called a career. I view rejection as a reef in the ocean. When
the ship hits the reef, there are two outcomes: it either sinks the ship or
alters its velocity with broken parts.

The first type of rejection may destroy the ship and provide no further
opportunity to advance one's career. In most cases, however, we encounter the
second type of rejection, which alters the velocity of one's career and requires
repairs. Not to mention, some ships are equipped with special radars called
mentors and knowledge that prevent the ship from encountering the reef. However,
once the ship enters uncharted territory, it will inevitably encounter a reef at
some point.

When I hit the reef, I retreat and reflect. During the repairs, I locate where
the reef was on a map. I ask myself why I navigated toward the reef and whether
I can avoid it next time. I seek advice from mentors and books on how they have
navigated the path. Then, I embark again.

July 4, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### Failure framework: experimental, expensive, pivotal, and avoidable

Failure is the inability to meet an expectation. The _expectation_ is the key
component. The position of the expectation dictates the outcome as a success or
a failure. The position is associated with quality, standards, regulations, and
laws. Individuals, organizations, and nations set different positions.

The exepectation sets the state of the outcome. The analogy of a glass being
half-empty or half-full is an expectation-based result. If I expected the glass
to be full, I view it as half-full. If I expected it to be empty, then it's
half-empty. The state is based on the expectation before observing the water
level.

Not all failures are the same due to differences in resource allocation, the
magnitude, and the reversibility of the consequences. For example, the failure
to maintain a server for financial applications is incomparable to other server
failures. While the functional expectation is the same, the reversibility and
magnitude of the consequence differ. Here, I present four types:

The first type is _experimental failure_, characterized by a high level of
reversibility and repeatability with minimal resources. It is commonly observed
in the research and development stage. Examples include receiving bug reports
from users and collaborators. As a student, I strategically use experimental
failure for exam preparations by writing exam-like questions on flashcards. I am
expected to know the answers a day before the exam. Discovering problems I am
unable to solve, I repeat the problems until I meet the expectation with
confidence. The phrase, “fail fast, fail often,” is appropriate here. It is a
great way to test one's product and software integrity, provided the
consequences are minimal and the process is repeatable.

The second type is _expensive failure_. “Expensive” often relates to value. I
prefer it over "costly," which solely connotes negativity. Not all failures are
expensive, as they require substantial resource allocations. In machine
learning, this could be attaining sub-optimal performance in trained models. In
simulations, it is failing to reach convergence after a weeks-long effort. In
experimental work, it is the failure to validate a hypothesis after 3 to 6
months of dedicated work. For researchers, it includes manuscript and grant
rejections. For students, it could be poor midterm and final exam grades. As a
junior in college, I enrolled in a graduate-level electrical engineering course
called Deep Learning. Despite failing to meet my grade expectation, the failure
was accompanied by tremendous knowledge gained.

Professionals encounter expensive failures. While the consequences are
significant and could potentially cost one's job, it is important to recognize
that such failures require a substantial mental commitment to achieve high
expectations. Those who achieve these expectations often reap benefits not
available to those who do not attempt to do so. Therefore, although deciding to
take on such risks involves potential downsides, I believe that (1) the
willingness to allocate substantial resources to achieve high expectations, (2)
the ability to take ownership of failures, and (3) the capacity to make
improvements are prerequisites for success.

The third type is _pivotal failure_. This failure significantly affects one's
life trajectory and is often associated with a great magnitude of consequence
and irreversibility. Examples might include failing to find a job in a specific
industry, being rejected from programs, failing licensing exams, or losing an
election as a politician. Those with high expectations may encounter this
pivotal failure more frequently due to the scarcity of available resources.

The fourth type is _avoidable failure_. These failures are best avoided as they
are not only irreversible but also costly. They involve failing to achieve
expectations set by regulations, laws, and practices. Examples include failing
to meet safety checks required to operate a lab, committing academic plagiarism,
or failing to comply with regulations and laws. These failures result in wasted
resources and are best learned from the mistakes of predecessors.

This framework offers a way to categorize and understand failure. However, the
four types of failure can coexist in varying proportions. For instance, some
experimental failures may also be avoidable or even pivotal.

June 16, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### Two types of innovation and evaluation

In Christensen's [disruptive innovation theory](#innovators-dilemma), innovation
is categorized into two types. The first type improves on earlier metrics
established by the community. In quantum physics and chemistry, scientists
develop approximation techniques that solve the Schrödinger equation and match
experimental results. The performance of neural networks for image
classification was measured based on metrics from the CIFAR-10 and CIFAR-100
image datasets.

The next type of innovation, while underperforms in the primary performance,
introduces a secondary performance. This secondary performance appeals to a
niche group. Density Functional Theory (DFT) has introduced a new performance
measure of computational efficiency by using the three coordinates as electron
density to solve the Schrödinger equation. DFT has enabled materials scientists
to employ the tool for phase transitions and kinetics.

With the two types of innovation discussed, we strive to measure performance
with both objective and subjective measures. For the second type, this is
difficult. Jensen Huang from Nvidia said, “I find KPIs hard to understand.”
“What’s a good KPI?” “Gross margins, that’s not a KPI. That’s a result.” Nvidia
is known for investing in new fields such as computational drug discovery and
materials science, beyond its origins as a computer-graphics chip design firm.

There are established measurables in academia and finance for evaluation. These
are results. Results are goals. We do not constantly measure goals; they are our
guiding stars. We observe and decide which star to follow. The destination is
not the star itself; we use it as a tool to navigate our lives. Instead, we
measure our velocity and operation aligned with these stars.

Hence, I must develop my own subjective criteria to evaluate my progress for the
second type of research. There is no checklist. I ask open-ended questions and
determine my progress based on my confidence in answering these questions.

First, I ask whether my research output provides immediate value to a niche
group of scientists. Second, I consider whether it has the potential to attract
users beyond the existing community. The commonality between DFT and personal
computing is their ability to attract a new cohort of users with secondary
performance measures—efficiency for DFT and ease of use for personal computing.
Lastly, I assess whether my research outcomes have the potential to be adopted
by the existing scientific community.

June 12, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### Goal

I have goals. I think about my most cherished goal every few hours. I sleep and
wake up with it. This goal serves as a guiding star, providing a sense of
direction regardless of the circumstances. Thinking about the goal itself is
magical. It generates a sense of purpose. All my actions and time are directed
towards it. Any work that may seem trivial on its own is no longer trivial. It
is a step required to achieve the goal.

The goal itself does not provide detailed action plans. Instead, my brain
subconsciously explores options and proposes action steps required to achieve
the goal. New action steps materialize when I am resting. I record them on a
device. I use my conscious brain to filter and prioritize them.

I record what I need to accomplish today, this week, this month, this quarter,
this semester, and this year. I have daily to-dos. I do not always check off all
the list items. I focus on what I have accomplished. As my brain is explorative
with ideas and action steps, there are always more than I can complete in a day.
If there aren’t enough, I ask for more.

For my daily hours, I utilize a 50-minute focus, 10-minute rest technique,
averaging 10 to 12 hours a day at home with no distractions. I play basketball
or listen to music between sessions. I prioritize my physical health above all
else. I do not need to force myself. I just consistently work towards the goal.

June 9, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### Embrace duality for excellence

An electron can be modeled with states such as "spin up" and "spin down," among
others described by quantum numbers. These varying states coexist in
superposition until one of the states is observed with a certain probability.

Similarly, multiple states of emotions and thoughts may coexist. Our mental
state is not binary. We may express a specific mental state—either happy or
sad—only when we state it, similar to how an electron manifests a single
energetic state when measured. The written or verbal mental statement may not
depict the superposed states. The expressed state merely has a higher
probability than other states, similar to the probable observation of the lowest
energy state at room temperature in electrons.

Elite athletes, such as Michael Jordan (MJ), exemplify both confidence and
humility. MJ scored game-winning points in NBA and NCAA championship games. Yet,
he also displayed humility by working to improve his three-point shooting
percentage and transform into a mid-range shooter with his trainer, Tim Grover,
for nearly two decades. MJ showed a willingness to listen and adhere to practice
and diet routines. In practice, he was ruthless, yet he could not hold back his
tears after winning his sixth championship, cradling the trophy in his arms.
Duality and plurality of emotions may coexist. The probability of each emotional
state is merely altered by circumstances, similar to how temperature influences
the distribution of electronic states.

I build open-source programs that help experimentalists analyze synthesized
crystal data. I design data structures for crystal geometries, develop
command-line user interfaces, and generate publication-quality figures. I am
proud and confident in my ability to deliver results. Nonetheless, I recognize
that my craftsmanship can still be elevated compared to other open-source
projects. Kobe Bryant said, "Once you know what it is in life that you want to
do, then the world basically becomes your library. Everything you view, you can
view from that perspective, which makes everything a learning asset for you."

I could enhance my code by using matrices to compute atomic distances instead of
relying on for-loops. I could improve the flow of the command-line interface by
seeking feedback from users without programming expertise. My goal is not just
to create good programs that merely work. I aim to craft phenomenal inventions
that are loved by my users. I invest my time—a part of my life—in learning and
applying unit testing, static type checking, continuous integration, and any
other practices that elevate my craft. No audience watches elite athletes'
individual practices in the morning, but that is where their legacy begins.

June 2, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### Writing principles

Words in a sentence are ordered based on purpose. While the following sentence,
"The role of titanium is discussed in the first section," is clear in meaning,
the first 4 words do not address the purpose of informing the structure of the
paper. I instead write, "First, we discuss the role of titanium."

A sentence requires precise words to avoid miscommunication. In fields such as
the military and medicine, professionals avoid colloquial words. Surgeons use
the term "correct" instead of "right" during procedures. I recently rewrote
"Find the number of atoms in a formula" to "Count the unique elements in a
chemical formula." In this context, "formula" could refer to a mathematical
formula, and "Find the number" is replaced with "count." "Elements" refers to
unique atom types.

A sentence is abridged with the correct noun-verb pair. Adjectives describe
nouns. Adverbs describe verbs. Adjectives and adverbs may not be necessary when
the noun-verb pair adequately conveys the meaning.

A sentence should not start with symbols. If an acronym is unfamiliar to the
audience, the full name should be used multiple times.

A sentence must be clear, descriptive, and concise in that order.

I do not connect two or more full sentences with conjunctions. A single sentence
is easier to read. A conjunction should be used sparingly. "Less is more," Steve
Jobs said.

In programming, we refactor comments, names, and structures after the function
is implemented. In writing, words, sentences, paragraphs, and outlines are
refactored after the meaning is conveyed.

Repetition is not harmful if it enhances clarity.

I avoid using adjectives and adverbs to prevent miscommunication between
colleagues and readers. These parts of speech are immeasurable.

June 1, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### Purpose of research

In crystallography and solid-state science, in particular, research serves to
(1) discover new substances with potential utility, (2) propose methods, and (3)
characterize the underlying structure and phenomena with a category such as
space group.

Here, the unifying theme is to produce new knowledge. The main difference
between humans and others is our ability to store and retrieve generational
knowledge across time and space. Hence, the production and propagation of
knowledge is a human-like endeavor. This activity equips us with the materials
and methods to become the apex predators in the animal kingdom.

In contrast, this very knowledge also equips us with the capacity to destroy
ourselves. Laws, regulations, and orders impose boundaries on individuals,
organizations, and nations. The boundaries prevent the misuse of power derived
from this knowledge. This is evident in recent history, particularly from the
1940s onwards. Hence, research is a sacred activity; it is a human activity,
aimed at advancing our civilization by producing new knowledge.

June 1, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### "Good luck!"

I favor the word "serendipity" over "luck." Both words represent an unexpected
beneficial outcome. They differ in terms of self-direction and initiation. The
well-known explorer isn't merely lucky to discover new lands. I am not merely
lucky to have crossed the Pacific Ocean to be in one of the lands. I decided to
be here. Yes, I do not neglect what I was provided with. Nonetheless,
serendipity implies a degree of will.

As a student, serendipity is the occurrence of exam problems I've solved several
times before. As a researcher, it's the moment I figure out how to optimize data
structures and create incredible figures with Matplotlib, or when I discover
open-source code that helps me learn computing with matrices. As a writer, it's
the moment when just a pair of a noun and a verb forms a better sentence. The
term "serendipity" encapsulates this sense of self-initiative and direction
towards solving a problem. So, when I say "Good luck," it has a meaningful
context too.

June 1, 2024, 160 Claremont, New York

### The Structure of Scientific Revolutions - Thomas S. Kuhn

It is widely accepted that science evolves linearly based on the body of
knowledge curated by predecessors. The phrase "...standing on the shoulders of
giants" by Issac Newton embodies the notion that scientific advancements are
built atop existing theories and concepts. However, _The Structure of Scientific
Revolutions_ by Thomas S. Kuhn claims scientific revolutions are neither linear
nor cumulative.

According to Kuhn, not all theories and concepts are defined as "revolutions."
Kuhn indicates that scientific revolutions only occur when there is a shift in
the existing paradigm to a new paradigm within a scientific community. A
paradigm is described as a standard of equations, techniques, apparatuses, and
educational systems that a scientific community has embraced and practiced. A
paradigm provides the common technical vocabulary that allows scientists in the
community to articulate concepts and collectively conduct experiments. In the
early seventeenth century, Newton's _Principia Mathematica_ provided a set of
equations and techniques that gave rise to the doctrine of classical physics,
also referred to as Newtonian physics. Newtonian physics has become the standard
paradigm that models the motion of particles and gravity. However, Kuhn argues
that long-standing paradigms often fail to explain the anomalies observed in
nature, which causes community members to lose trust in the existing paradigm.
Scientists, often young and new to the field, seek a new set of equations
radically distinct from the existing paradigm. Eventually, one dominant theory
emerges and displaces the old paradigm, as in Einstein's general theory of
relativity, which accounted for the anomaly found in the orbit of Mercury that
Newtonian physics failed to explain. Kuhn outlines the process of scientific
revolutions with a framework consisting of 4 phases, pre-science, normal
science, crisis, and revolution, whose last phase is resolved by a paradigm
shift.

The first phase within Kuhn's framework of scientific revolution is defined as
_pre-science_. While individual scientists attempt to discover new theories
during pre-science, there is no dominant set of equations, techniques, and
concepts referred to as a paradigm. During the pre-paradigmatic period,
scientists observe and collect facts. Due to the lack of a common paradigm,
scientists within each pre-paradigmatic school confront one another and
interpret these facts in different ways. Pre-science is further characterized by
a lack of common scientific vocabulary. The lack of common language hinders
collaboration amongst scientists and schools. Thus, Kuhn describes pre-science
as the least productive phase in the framework.

The transition from pre-science to normal science occurs as one set of theories
and concepts becomes dominant within the scientific community. The distinction
between pre-science and normal science is the existence of a paradigm. Kuhn
explains that normal science "is predicated on the assumption that the
scientific community knows what the world is like," comparing a paradigm to a
"map" that guides scientists towards modeling nature. Kuhn illustrates that
research within the paradigm of normal science is also analogous to
"puzzle-solving," where the problems and questions within the paradigm are
scattered pieces of solvable puzzles. The puzzle pieces are fit together in a
complete shape through refinement and precision. The comparison of a paradigm to
a map and puzzle-solving assumes that the scientific community is capable of
knowing nature guided by the paradigm. The period of normal science is marked by
cumulative and linear developments facilitated by advancements in measuring
devices and techniques. Newton's universal law of gravitation in Principia
Mathematica published in 1687 approximated the Moon's orbital period based upon
the principle that attractive gravitational force exists between two objects.
Furthermore, using the same principle, Newton predicted the motion of other
planets in the Solar system. Within the paradigm of normal science, research
questions and facts collected serve to support the existing paradigm. Normal
science is not focused on novelty but rather precision and confirmation.

The transition from normal science to crisis takes place when new inexplicable
findings referred to as anomalies threaten the foundation of the existing
paradigm and cast widespread doubt within the scientific community. As measuring
techniques and devices improve, anomalies become easier to detect and harder to
be avoided within the scientific community. The anomaly in Newtonian physics was
first observed by Le Verrier, a French astronomer, in 1859. Through Le Verrier's
improved mathematical technique of predicting the motion of Mercury, he
discovered that there was a 43 arcsecond per century discrepancy between the
theoretical value of Newtonian physics and the observed precession of the
perihelion of Mercury. Perihelion is the point in the orbit of a planet nearest
to the Sun. One of the ways scientists respond to an anomaly is by devising ad
hoc modifications of their theory in order to eliminate any apparent conflict
within the paradigm. In response to the discrepancy in Mercury's precession,
some scientists that defended Newton's paradigm assumed that there was an
invisible dusk between the Sun and Mercury that affected the precession. Others
proposed a new planet, Vulcan, orbited close to the Sun and was responsible for
the discrepancy. As the anomaly remains inexplicable within the existing
paradigm, scientists in the community become more critical of the paradigm and
begin to question its underlying foundations. The widespread acknowledgment of
these inconsistencies within the existing paradigm and the introduction of new
theories illustrate the defining characteristics of crisis. During a crisis,
scientists, often young and less invested in the existing paradigm, seek
theories outside the boundary of the paradigm in order to explain the anomaly.

An alternative paradigm is established when a new set of theories and concepts
that explains the anomaly becomes widely accepted by the scientific community.
In the case of the 43 arcseconds per century anomaly found in the precession of
Mercury, it was Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity published in 1915
that precisely modeled Mercury's orbit without discrepancy. Einstein's new
theory superseded Newton's universal law of gravitation and became the standard
for predicting a planet's orbit. The displacement of the old paradigm by a new
paradigm marks the defining characteristic of Kuhn's fourth phase of revolution,
in which the newly constituted dominant paradigm entirely reconstructs the
fundamental methods, generalizations, and rules of the old paradigm. The shift
to Einstein's theory of relativity in which time and space are not fixed
demonstrates that the foundations behind a new paradigm are not cumulative but
rather radical. However, Kuhn notes the cyclical and periodic nature of these
paradigm shifts or transformations, in which scientific revolution circles back
to the period of normal science. After a new paradigm is introduced, the
community enters the phase of normal science with scientists of the new order
aiming to improve the precision of the paradigm. In the case of Einsteinian
physics, the theory of general relativity was further used to predict the
movement of the precession of perihelion in other planets. Just as in the shift
from Newtonian to Einsteinian physics, according to Kuhn's framework of
scientific revolution, scientists of Einsteinian physics will discover anomalies
that lead to new crises, and the established paradigm will again be transformed.

While scientific revolutions accomplished by paradigm shifts within a scientific
community seem to advance the knowledge of science towards truth, Kuhn maintains
that the role of scientific revolution lies in providing a new "map" that serves
to temporarily guide scientists until anomalies are observed. Furthermore, there
is no linear progression towards truth but only periodic rise and fall of
paradigms. As Kuhn describes, "Einstein's general theory of relativity is closer
to Aristotle's than... to Newton's." Based on Kuhn's analysis, Newton's phrase
"...standing on the shoulders of giants" is partially accurate during the period
of normal science. However, the structure of scientific revolutions as a whole
is neither cumulative nor linear but rather a cycle of paradigmatic
transformation.

Fall 2021, EID 367, The Cooper Union

### The Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail - Clayton M. Christensen

<a id="innovators-dilemma"></a>

Despite seemingly sound managerial practices, such as listening to existing
customers and continued investment in technology, great companies are often
displaced as market leaders. According to Clayton M. Christensen, in The
Innovator’s Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail, it is
precisely due to these widely accepted practices of good management that leading
firms are confronted with great profit loss and eventual bankruptcy. The fall of
these incumbents begs the question, “Why do great companies fail?” In his book,
Christensen highlights the failure of incumbent firms to recognize and respond
to new technological developments as the source of their decline.

Christensen coined the phrase the failure framework which illustrates the
process of how certain types of new technologies cause established companies,
also referred to as incumbent companies, to fail. Christensen defines technology
as either sustaining or disruptive. Sustaining technology iteratively and
incrementally improves upon an existing performance measure, a requirement or a
specification demanded by customers. In the hard disk drive industry in the
1980s, mainframe manufacturers such as IBM demanded large storage capacity
requirements of 300 to 400 MB from the 14-inch hard drive. Disruptive
technology, often developed by entrant companies, in contrast, initially
underperforms in comparison to the performance measure of sustaining technology
but introduces a new performance measure. In the same hard disk drive case
study, Christensen cites the architectural innovations of the 8-inch hard disk
drive as disruptive technology, which introduced a new performance measure of
small size demanded by desktop and mini-computer manufacturers such as
Hewlett-Packard. Disruptive technology initially fails to meet the performance
requirement of the incumbent companies’ customers and must find a new or niche
market that values the newly introduced performance measure for survival. The
8-inch drive with the storage capacity of 40 MB initially failed to meet the
storage capacity demand of the mainframe manufacturers. Christensen's failure
framework describes how, despite this initial underperformance, disruptive
technology eventually causes the failure of established companies. The failure
framework consists of three principle components, technology maturation,
performance oversupply, and resource dependence.

Technology maturation, the first component in Christensen’s failure framework,
introduces a challenge for sustaining technology to maintain the rate of
improvement in performance. Technology maturation occurs at the end of the
Technology S-Curve. The Technology S-Curve is a graphical representation which
demonstrates the rate of performance improvement with performance on the
vertical axis and engineering effort or time on the horizontal axis. As the
curve progresses towards the mid-section in the horizontal axis, the slope of
the curve increases as technology becomes more understood and more resources are
allocated. Technology maturation occurs when performance on the vertical axis
asymptotically approaches a natural or physical limit as engineering effort or
time further progresses. Returning to the disk drive case study, while the
14-inch drives approached the asymptote of technology maturation with annual
performance improvement limited to 22 percent, the 8-inch drives, designed to
optimize storage, benefited from the advances in storage capacity with annual
storage capacity improvements of 40 percent. The reduced rate of performance
improvement due to technology maturation of the 14-inch drives led existing
customers of the sustaining technology to pay a premium for the same incremental
performance improvement. Customers of the 14-inch drives paid 1.65 USD per
megabyte improvement, 13 percent higher than 1.42 USD of the 8-inch hard drive.

The second component of the failure framework, performance oversupply, occurs as
the rate of performance improvement exceeds the performance requirement. In
continuing the disk drive case study, Christensen presents the storage capacity
of 5.25-inch drives, which exceeded 300 percent of the desktop manufacturers’
performance demand. Meanwhile, the 3.5-inch drives, which initially
underperformed, ultimately satisfied the storage demand of the desktop
manufacturers by maintaining the rate of storage improvement. Consequently, by
1988, the 5.25- and 3.5-inch drives both met the performance demand of the
desktop manufacturers. At this point, as desktop manufacturers no longer
required a drive with higher storage capacity, customers began seeking other
features such as functionality, reliability, convenience, and price. As
demonstrated in the desktop computer market, during this period of performance
oversupply, existing customers of sustaining technology migrate to disruptive
technology. In 1985, only 1 percent of the desktop manufacturers migrated from
5- to 3.5-inch drives. Within 4 years, however, the 3.5-inch drives accounted
for 60 percent of total drive sales. The period of performance oversupply and
the continued rate of performance improvement of disruptive technology shifted
the basis of competition from storage capacity to other features such as
portability and price.

The third component of the failure framework, resource dependence, describes the
tendency of a company to allocate resources towards serving the existing
customers. As the company depends on satisfying existing customers and in return
generating profit to maintain the operational expenses of the company, incumbent
companies seek more definitive ways to maintain or increase profitability. As a
result, incumbent companies aggressively invest in sustaining technology and
attempt to lead existing customers to higher-end products with higher gross
margins. Incumbents choose not to allocate resources in disruptive technology
where gross margins are lower and the market is unpredictable and smaller. In
the case of the hard disk drive industry, Seagate, the incumbents of the 5-inch
hard drive market for desktop manufacturers, initially canceled the 3.5-inch
drive program and continued innovating the 5-inch model where customers paid
higher prices for incremental megabytes of capacity. In 1987, despite the
emergence of customer migration from 5-inch to 3.5-inch hard drives, Seagate
executives initially disregarded the 3.5-inch market due to the smaller market
size of 50 million USD and lower gross margins of 22 percent compared to the
current 5-inch market with 300 million USD and 25 percent. By 1991, the 3.5-inch
market grew to 700 million USD as new customers such as portable laptops
manufacturers emerged, and simultaneously desktop manufacturers further migrated
to the 3.5-inch disk drive during performance oversupply of the 5-inch drive.
While Seagate eventually attempted to allocate resources for the 3.5-inch drive
in 1988, Christensen cites that by 1991 none of Seagate’s 3.5-inch products had
been sold to portable/laptop/notebook computers. In 1997, Seagate reported a 550
million net loss in sales.

Why do great companies fail? Christensen’s failure framework illustrates the
process of how disruptive technology drives sustaining technology developed by
incumbent firms in the mainstream market to fail. Sustaining technology
incrementally improves upon the performance measure demanded by the existing
customers. In contrast, disruptive technology, while initially underperforming
in the performance measure of sustaining technology, introduces a new
performance measure. As the performance demand of existing customers is met by
both sustaining and disruptive technology, customers seek other features such as
portability, functionality, and price which are offered by disruptive
technology. At this point, customers of incumbent companies migrate to
disruptive technology. As the process of migration continues, incumbent
companies are displaced by these entrant firms and disruptive technology
prevails.

Fall 2021, EID 367, The Cooper Union

### The Discoverers: A History of Man’s Search to Know His World and Himself - Daniel J. Boorstin

Although it is often believed that the widespread of technological innovation is
created through individual genius, the acceptance and rejection of a technology
are affected by elements in which the creator has no control over. These
elements are referred to as human dimensions. The historical accounts presented
in *The Discoverers: A History of Man’s Search to Know His World and Himself *by
Daniel J. Boorstin indicates that human dimensions such as political, religious,
and social factors influence the acceptance and rejection of a technology.

In early fifteenth century Portugal, innovation in shipbuilding was stimulated
by the political influence of Prince Henry, also known as Henry the Navigator.
With political and economic interests in seafaring across the west coast of
Africa, Prince Henry utilized national resources to create an infrastructure for
shipbuilding both in his court, referred to as the “Research and Development
Laboratory” by Boorstin, and in Sagres, a coastal city of south Portugal. Under
the leadership of Prince Henry, caravels were optimized for seafaring. The new
lateen-rigged caravel design allowed the mariners to travel 55 degrees into the
wind compared to the 67 degrees of the previous square lateen-rigged caravel,
reducing time at sea by approximately one-third. Furthermore, the introduction
of a shallow deck allowed the mariners to explore inshore waters and to beach
the ship for carpentering and repairing. The political leadership of Prince
Henry ultimately fostered an innovative hub for shipbuilding as Boorstin
describes, “under Prince Henry's stimulus, Lagos, a few miles along the coast of
Sagres, became a center of caravel-building,” and attracted talents such as
“...the shipbuilders and carpenters, and other craftsmen.” Despite the death of
Prince Henry in 1460, Sagres continued to remain the center of shipbuilding
innovation. Prince Henry’s maritime agendas for innovation exemplify the
influence of politics in fostering an environment for advancement and acceptance
of a technology.

In contrast to the political influence that incubated Sagres as a region of
maritime development in Portugal, during the same period, anti-maritime policies
induced the rejection of shipbuilding technology in China. During the early
fifteenth century, the Chinese navy led by Cheng Ho possessed remarkable
shipbuilding technology. The Chinese navy had the capacity of deploying up to
317 ships. The largest ships were up to 444 feet in length and 180 feet in beam
compared to Prince Henry’s caravel that had 70 feet in length and 25 feet in
beam. The Chinese navy also invented watertight bulkheads which partitioned the
ship and prevented the spread of fire and water. However, after the death of
Cheng Ho’s patron, Emperor Yung Lo in 1424, the next emperor enacted
anti-maritime laws and introduced capital punishment for unapproved travels
abroad. In contrast to the political support of shipbuilding by Prince Henry in
Portugal, the Chinese prohibited shipbuilding which led to “shipyards
disintegrated, sailors deserted, and shipwrights fearing to become accomplices
in the crime of seafaring.” Consequently by 1474, the fleet of 400 warships
diminished to 140, and by 1525, “Chinese officials were ordered to destroy all
such ships... perfecting laws and organizing officials to suppress all
seafaring.” The juxtaposition of the acceptance and rejection of the
shipbuilding technology led by the political authority of these two states
demonstrates the significant role of the political dimension in technology
adoption and innovation.

The Roman Catholic Church’s early support of Gutenberg’s Bible, which utilized
the movable type, is an example of religion's role in fostering technological
innovation. Johannes Gutenberg, a publisher and goldsmith born in the German
Roman Empire, invented the first movable-type printing press in 1454. The
movable type press initially cost more to build, requiring“early investment as
the preparation of a wood block or copper plate was costly.” The Roman Catholic
Church, with interest in the mass production of the Bible, provided economic
support to Gutenberg. Consequently, with the support of the Church, the printing
press industry grew exponentially. In Europe, towns that had printing presses
increased from 11 to 238 between the period of 1480 and 1500. The movable type
press further propagated beyond the printing of the Bible to the printing of
ancient classics such as Aristotle, Caesar, and Ptolemy’s Geography. The
religious influence of the Church not only contributed to the development of
technology through capital support but sparked a transition from handwritten
manuscripts to printed books, which greatly enhanced the scalability of
knowledge dissemination in fifteenth century Europe.

While Christian influence spurred the widespread adoption of the movable type
across Europe, in contrast, this same religious influence also suppressed
map-making technology. In 100 BC, Ptolemy’s astronomical and observation-based
cartography and standards were carefully designed and adopted by the Roman
Empire. Ptolemy invented the grid system of dividing the earth’s sphere into
latitudes and longitudes for eight thousand areas. However, after the Roman
Empire was conquered by Christianity, orthodox Christian geographers discarded
Ptolemy’s accumulated body of knowledge in cartography. Boorstin accounts,
“Christian faith and dogma suppressed the useful image of the world that had
been so slowly, so painfully, and so scrupulously drawn by ancient geographers.”
Instead, orthodox Christian geographers used literal interpretations from
Christian dogma and biblical scripture to formulate their own map. The Christian
maps, regardless of their accuracy, became the “guides to the Articles of
Faith.” Boorstin describes the period as the “Great Interruption,” in which
cartographic innovations were halted and technology retreated. The contrast
between the adoption of the movable type and suppression of Ptolemy’s
cartography under the influence of Christianity demonstrates the influence of
religion on technology acceptance and rejection.

Lastly, the social component within the human dimensions may induce acceptance
and rejection of technology. In the city of Lyons, France in 1481, prior to the
adoption of the clock, public bells served not only as the broadcasting medium
between the people and town councils and churches, but also provided a source of
identity and communion for the town’s people and institutions. Boorstin states,
“Churches, monasteries, and whole towns were judged by the reach and resonance
of the peals from their tower.” Upon the advent of public clocks, the citizens
of Lyons themselves demanded installment of a public clock and petitioned their
town council stating, “if such a clock were to be made, more merchants would
come to the fairs, the citizens would be very consoled and cheerful...” Boorstin
indicates that the prior technical knowledge and experience of bell-casting not
only encouraged wide adoption but also “advanced the art of the clockmaker and
encouraged the elaboration of clocks.” The societal demand for a public clock by
the citizens of Lyons demonstrates that the acceptance of technology is
influenced by prior exposure to similar technology and social values.

While the acceptance of the public clock was made possible by direct social
demands from the citizens of Lyons in 1481, the same clockmaking technology was
decisively suppressed with the rise of another social group known as the French
guilds in Paris in 1544. As clockmaking technology “enticed men across
boundaries of religions, language, and politics” throughout Europe, in Paris,
the French guilds only supported an organized association of clockmakers and
merchants who enforced the guild’s monopoly against foreigners. The French
guilds not only imposed heavy duties on their members, but also inhibited the
growth of an ecosystem crucial for innovation such as “restricting numbers of
apprentices and of workshops.” While the French government “imported” Henry
Sully, the famous clockmaker, and 60 other craftsmen from England to invigorate
the clockmaking industry in France, the attempt failed as the French guilds
suppressed Sully’s workshops. The juxtaposition between the acceptance of
clockmaking technology led by the citizens of Lyons and the suppression by the
guilds indicates that the interest of social groups affects the outcome of
technological innovation, often more powerfully than the influence of politics.

The rise and fall of innovative spirits in shipbuilding, cartography, printing,
and clockmaking were identified in the historical case studies across Portugal,
China, and France. The juxtaposition of the acceptance and rejection of these
technological innovations due to the various influences of political, religious,
and social factors corroborates the thesis that technology acceptance and
rejection are a function of both human dimensions and the utility of the
product. Prior to building commercial technologies and mastering engineering
knowledge, innovators must also consider the various political, religious, and
social contexts in which these technologies exist within.

Fall 2021, EID 367, The Cooper Union

### The Two Cultures and the Scientific Revolution - C. P. Snow

Steve Jobs, co-founder of Apple Inc., stated, “It's in Apple's DNA that
technology alone is not enough — it's technology married with liberal arts,
married with the humanities, that yields us the results that make our heart
sing.” By recognizing the power of this union between the humanities and the
sciences, Steve Jobs created numerous tools that improved the accessibility and
user experience of personal computing devices, catapulting Apple Inc. into one
of the most innovative companies in the world.

In his lecture at Cambridge University in 1957, later titled _The Two Cultures
and the Scientific Revolution_, C. P. Snow, a British physicist and novelist,
warned the British parliament of the widening separation between the two
disciplinaries, the humanities and the sciences. Snow asserted that "the
intellectual life of the whole of Western society is increasingly being split
into two polar groups.” Political leaders who predominantly studied the
humanities within the traditional British educational system were ill-equipped
to lead the nation in the age of the scientific revolution. Snow argued that the
elites often rejected the innovation of scientists, stating that while
scientists had the “future in their bones,” the “traditional culture” or the
elites responded “by wishing the future did not exist.” Having recognized the
threat of this divide to national competition a decade after World War II, Snow
demanded for a unification of the two disciplinaries with the final remark,
“closing the gap between our cultures is a necessity in the most abstract
intellectual sense, as well as in the most practical.”

Steve Jobs’ success in applying his knowledge of calligraphy from the humanities
to the development of personal computing devices illustrates the intrinsic role
of interdisciplinary diversity in innovation. When the first Macintosh computer
was released in 1984, for the first time in the history of machinery, Jobs
provided users with a wide assortment of digital fonts and typeface designs such
as Helvetica and Times New Roman. The ability to customize the font along with a
human-centric user-interface improved the accessibility of personal computing
devices. During Job’s commencement speech at Stanford University in 2015, he
recalled his calligraphy experience at Reed College in the 1970’s as
“...beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science cannot
capture.” He further stated that, had he not studied calligraphy in his 20’s,
“personal computers might not have the wonderful typography they do today.” His
collective insight into the humanities and software technology changed how
humans interacted with machines and demonstrated the significance of
interdisciplinary diversity in technological innovation.

Steve Jobs, one of the most innovative entrepreneurs of the 21st century, by
combining the knowledge of the humanities and the sciences, improved the
accessibility of personal computing devices for users. Conversely, this
innovation by Steve Jobs also precipitated the bankruptcies of numerous
companies that failed to recognize the threat of interdisciplinary divide as
previously warned by C.P. Snow. Therefore, technological leaders and
entrepreneurs of today must recognize and embrace interdisciplinarity as an
indispensable element of innovation.

Fall 2021, EID 367, The Cooper Union
